.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2024 David Demelier <markand@malikania.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @IRCCD_MAN_DATE@
.Dt IRCCD-API-TIMER 3
.Os
.\" NAME
.Sh NAME
.Nm Irccd.Timer
.Nd irccd timer API
.\" SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Vt Irccd.Timer.Single
.Vt Irccd.Timer.Repeat
.Fn Irccd.Timer "type, delay, callback"
.Fn Irccd.Timer.prototype.start
.Fn Irccd.Timer.prototype.stop
.\" DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This API provides periodic timers.
.Pp
Even though they are generated at periodic interval they do run in the same
thread and do not require special user mutexes.
.\" CONSTANTS
.Sh CONSTANTS
The following constants properties are defined:
.Pp
.Bl -tag
.It Va Irccd.Timer.Single No (int)
The timer is single-shot.
.It Va Irccd.Timer.Repeat No (int)
The timer is looping.
.El
.\" METHODS
.Sh METHODS
.\" Irccd.Timer()
The
.Fn Irccd.Timer
constructor function creates a new timer object with the given
.Fa delay
expressed in milliseconds and the function
.Fa callback
to be called when the timer expires. The argument
.Fa type
is either
.Vt Irccd.Timer.Single
to create a one-shot timer or
.Vt Irccd.Timer.Repeat
to make a infinite timer.
.Pp
.\" Irccd.Timer.prototype.start
The
.Fn Irccd.Timer.prototype.start
method will effectively start the timer. It does nothing if the timer is
already running.
.Pp
.\" Irccd.Timer.prototype.stop
The
.Fn Irccd.Timer.prototype.stop
will stop the timer. It does nothing if the timer is already stopped.
.\" EXAMPLES
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create a timer that will repeat every 1 second.
.Bd -literal
var t = new Irccd.Timer(Irccd.Timer.Repeat, 1000, function () {
	// Do your action, this will be called every 1 second.
});
.Ed
.\" EXCEPTIONS
.Sh EXCEPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er Error
On other errors.
.El
.\" SEE ALSO
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr irccd-api 3
.\" AUTHORS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm irccd
daemon was written by
.An David Demelier Aq Mt markand@malikania.fr .
