.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2026 David Demelier <markand@malikania.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @IRCCD_MAN_DATE@
.Dt IRCCD-TEMPLATES 7
.Os
.\" NAME
.Sh NAME
.Nm irccd-templates
.Nd irccd formatting and common patterns
.\" DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Plugins can be configured using a powerful template syntax, this allows editing
the plugin messages to override them.
.Pp
The syntax is
.Ar \&?{}
where
.Ar \&?
is replaced by one of the token defined below. Braces are mandatory and cannot
be ommited. To write a literal template construct, prepend the token twice.
.Pp
The following templates are available:
.Bl -tag -width 14n
.It Ar %
date and time (see Time section).
.It Ar #{name}
name will be substituted from the keywords (see
.Xr KEYWORDS
section).
.It Ar \&${name}
name will be substituted from the environment variable (see
.Xr "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
variables).
.It Ar @{attributes}
the attributes will be substituted to IRC colors (see Attributes).
.It Ar !{command}
execute the shell command (see Shell).
.El
.\" TIME
.Sh TIME
The date and time format may be used just like
.Xr strftime 3
so for the hours and minutes, you can write %H:%M.
.\" ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.Sh ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
If supported, you can use environment variables like \&${HOME}. Please note
that braces are mandatory.
.\" IRC ATTRIBUTES
.Sh IRC ATTRIBUTES
The attribute format is composed of three parts, foreground, background and
modifiers, each separated by a comma.
.Pp
Note: attributes and colors are not supported by all IRC clients.
.Pp
Warning: do not use colors and attributes outside IRC (e.g. for storing text in
files) because escape codes are only valid in IRC context.
.Ss Available colors
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
white
.It
black
.It
blue
.It
green
.It
red
.It
brown
.It
purple
.It
orange
.It
yellow
.It
lightgreen
.It
cyan
.It
lightcyan
.It
lightblue
.It
pink
.It
grey
.It
lightgrey
.El
.Ss Available attributes
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
bold
.It
italic
.It
strike
.It
reset
.It
underline
.It
underline2
.It
reverse
.El
.\" SHELL ATTRIBUTES
.Sh SHELL ATTRIBUTES
Like IRC attributes, it's possible to specify colors and attributes in some
places such as logger configuration.
.Pp
Warning: colors are not supported on all platforms.
.Ss Available colors
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
black
.It
red
.It
green
.It
orange
.It
blue
.It
purple
.It
cyan
.It
white
.It
default
.El
.Ss Available attributes
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
bold
.It
dim
.It
underline
.It
blink
.It
reverse
.It
hidden
.El
.\" SHELL
.Sh SHELL
This format executes the command enclosed in the braces verbatim using the
.Xr popen 3
function. It only captures the standard input so you may need to redirect the
error somewhere else if you need to capture it.
.\" KEYWORDS
.Sh KEYWORDS
Keywords are arbitrary names that are replaced depending on the context. They
are usually available to configure plugins.
.Ss Predefined keywords
Here's the list of keywords that a lot of plugins uses:
.Bl -tag -width 12n
.It Va #{channel}
the channel name,
.It Va #{command}
the command to invoke the plugin, e.g. `!ask`,
.It Va #{message}
a message (depending on context),
.It Va #{origin}
the full user, e.g. `markand!~mkd@localhost`,
.It Va #{nickname}
the short nickname,
.It Va #{plugin}
the plugin name,
.It Va #{server}
the current server name,
.It Va #{topic}
the topic,
.It Va #{target}
a target, e.g. a person who gets kicked.
.El
.Pp
Warning: these keywords can be overriden by plugins.
.\" EXAMPLES
.Sh EXAMPLES
Valid constructs:
.Bl -tag -width 20n -offset Ds
.It #{target}, welcome
if target is set to "irccd", becomes
.Dq "irccd, welcome" .
.It @{red}#{target}
if target is specified, it is written in red.
.El
.Pp
Invalid or literals constructs:
.Bl -tag -width 20n -offset Ds
.It ##{target}
will output
.Dq #{target} .
.It abc##xyz
will output
.Dq abc#xyz .
.It #target
will output
.Dq #target .
.It #{target
will cause an error.
.It @#{message}
will output
.Dq @bar
if message keyword is set to
.Dq bar .
.El
.Pp
Colors & attributes:
.Bl -tag -width 20n -offset Ds
.It @{red,blue}
will write text red on blue background,
.It @{default,yellow}
will write default color text on yellow background,
.It @{white,black,bold,underline}
will write white text on black in both bold and underline.
.El
.Pp
For instance, using the logger plugin, it's possible to customize the pattern to
use when someone joins a channel like that:
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
#{origin} joined #{channel}
.Ed
.Pp
The keyword #{origin} will be substituted to the nickname and #{channel} to the
channel name.
.Pp
Shell:
.Bl -tag -width 20n -offset Ds
.It !{uptime}
will return the status of the command.
.El
.Pp
Be very cautious with user input as they may access your file system if you use
direct user input in this.
.\" SEE ALSO
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr irccd 1 ,
.Xr irccd.conf 5
.\" AUTHORS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm irccd
daemon was written by
.An David Demelier Aq Mt markand@malikania.fr .
