.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2022 David Demelier <markand@malikania.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @IRCCD_MAN_DATE@
.Dt IRCCD-API-HTTP 3
.Os
.\" NAME
.Sh NAME
.Nm Irccd.Http
.Nd asynchronous HTTP API
.\" SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fn Irccd.Http.request "options, callback"
.\" DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Execute asynchronous HTTP requests.
.Pp
This module is optional and only available if irccd was build with HTTP
support. Make sure to test availability of
.Nm
before using it.
.\" METHODS
.Sh METHODS
The
.Fn Irccd.Http.request
starts a new asynchronous HTTP request using the object
.Fa options
which should have the following properties:
.Bl -tag
.It Fa url No (string)
The destination URL which should start with the scheme
.Dq http://
or
.Dq https:// .
.It Fa method No (string)
The HTTP method to use, examples:
.Dq GET ,
.Dq POST ,
.Dq DELETE .
If not set, defaults to
.Dq GET .
.It Fa body No (string)
A body to send to the request, if value is not a string it will be coerced
in-place.
.It Fa timeout No (int)
Maximum number of seconds to wait. If unset, waits indefinitely.
.El
.Pp
The argument
.Fa callback
must have the signature
.Fn fn "result"
which unique argument
.Fa result
is an object with the following properties:
.Bl -tag
.It Fa status No (int)
If non-zero, contains a native platform error code which indicates that the
operation could not complete.
.It Fa code No (int)
HTTP return code, examples
.Dq 200 ,
.Dq 404 .
It it set to 0 if
.Fa status
is non-zero (operation failed).
.It Fa body No (string)
Content of body request.
.El
.\" EXAMPLES
.Sh EXAMPLES
Perform a POST request with a JSON body which will be converted on the fly.
.Bd -literal
const options = {
	url: "http://foo.org",
	method: "POST",
	body: {
		user: "francis",
		password: "sicnarf"
	}
};

Irccd.Http.request(options, function (r) {
	if (r.status === 0)
		Irccd.Logger.info("operation complete");
});
.Ed
.\" SEE ALSO
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr irccd-api 3
.\" AUTHORS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm irccd
daemon was written by
.An David Demelier Aq Mt markand@malikania.fr .
