.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2026 David Demelier <markand@malikania.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @IRCCD_MAN_DATE@
.Dt IRCCD-API-LOGGER 3
.Os
.\" NAME
.Sh NAME
.Nm Irccd.Logger
.Nd logging API
.\" SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fn Irccd.Logger.debug "message"
.Fn Irccd.Logger.info "message"
.Fn Irccd.Logger.warning "message"
.\" DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This module must be used to log messages. It will add messages to the logging
system configured in the
.Xr irccd.conf 5
file.
.Pp
For instance, if user has chosen to log into syslog, this module will log at
syslog too.
.Pp
Any plugin can log messages, the message will be prepended by the plugin name to
be easily identifiable.
.\" METHODS
.Sh METHODS
.\" Irccd.Logger.debug
The
.Fn Irccd.Logger.debug
method adds a debug
.Fa message ,
this is only appended to the journal if irccd was compiled in Debug mode.
.Pp
.\" Irccd.Logger.info
The
.Fn Irccd.Logger.info
method adds a informational
.Fa message .
The message is logged only if irccd is running with verbose messages enabled.
.Pp
.\" Irccd.Logger.warning
The
.Fn Irccd.Logger.warning
method adds a warning
.Fa message .
The message will always be logged.
.\" SEE ALSO
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr irccd-api 3
.\" AUTHORS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm irccd
daemon was written by
.An David Demelier Aq Mt markand@malikania.fr .
