.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2025 David Demelier <markand@malikania.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @IRCCD_MAN_DATE@
.Dt LIBIRCCD-LOG 3
.Os
.\" NAME
.Sh NAME
.Nm libirccd-log
.Nd loggers
.\" SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In irccd/log.h
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_to_syslog "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_to_console "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_to_file "const char *path"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_to_null "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_set_verbose "int verbose"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_set_template "const char *tmpl"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_info "const char *fmt, ..."
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_warn "const char *fmt, ..."
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_debug "const char *fmt, ..."
.Ft void
.Fn irc_log_finish "void"
.\" DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This header provides functions to log messages into the configured
.Xr irccd 1
loggers.
.Pp
Messages should always be prefixed by its component. For example, server
messages start with
.Dq server <id>:
and plugins
.Dq plugin <id>: .
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_log_to_syslog ,
.Fn irc_log_to_console
and
.Fn irc_log_to_null
set the logger to the
.Xr syslog 3
mechanism, standard output/error and completely quiet respectively. The
.Fn irc_log_to_file
uses the file specified by
.Pa path
to log everything. All those functions will close the current adapter before
changing it.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_log_set_verbose
changes the verbosity to on if
.Fa verbose
is greater than 0 (which is the default).
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_log_set_template
changes the format string used to log entries with the help of
.Xr libirccd-subst 3
routines. Passing NULL as
.Ar tmpl
resets the default format to
.Dq #{message}
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_log_info
uses the
.Xr printf 3
like format to log information messages. Thoses messages are ignored if the
verbosity is null.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_log_warn
function logs a warning message, it is always written even if verbosity is null.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_log_debug
only write messages if the daemon was built in
.Dq debug
mode, it also ignores the verbosity level.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_log_finish
function closes the current adapter. It is usually not required from the user
itself.
.\" SEE ALSO
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libirccd 3
.\" AUTHORS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm irccd
daemon was written by
.An David Demelier Aq Mt markand@malikania.fr .
