.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2026 David Demelier <markand@malikania.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @IRCCD_MAN_DATE@
.Dt LIBIRCCD-HOOK 3
.Os
.\" NAME
.Sh NAME
.Nm libirccd-hook
.Nd manipulate hooks
.\" SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In irccd/hook.h
.Ft struct irc_hook *
.Fn irc_hook_new "const char *name, const char *path"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_hook_invoke "struct irc_hook *hook, const struct irc_event *ev"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_hook_finish "struct irc_hook *"
.\" DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This header provides functions to create new hook or to invoke them.
.Pp
The
.Vt "struct irc_hook"
is declared as:
.Bd -literal
struct irc_hook {
	char name[IRC_ID_LEN];
	char path[PATH_MAX];
	struct irc_hook *next;
};
.Ed
.Pp
The fields of
.Vt "struct irc_hook"
are:
.Bl -tag -width name
.It Va name
Name to identify this hook.
.It Va path
Absolute path to the hook.
.It Va next
Pointer to the next hook.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_hook_new
allocates a new hook with the identifer
.Fa name
on the given
.Fa path .
Those arguments will be copied into the returned structure fields of the same
name.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_hook_invoke
will invoke the
.Fa hook
with the current IRC event pointed by
.Fa ev .
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_hook_finish
clears resources allocated for the
.Fa hook .
Make sure to remove it from the linked list where it is attached to before
calling this function.
.\" SEE ALSO
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libirccd 3
.\" AUTHORS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm irccd
daemon was written by
.An David Demelier Aq Mt markand@malikania.fr .
