.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2013-2026 David Demelier <markand@malikania.fr>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd @IRCCD_MAN_DATE@
.Dt LIBIRCCD-IRCCD 3
.Os
.\" NAME
.Sh NAME
.Nm libirccd-irccd
.Nd IRC daemon functions
.\" SYNOPSIS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In irccd/irccd.h
.Bd -literal
extern struct irc {
	struct irc_server *servers;
	struct irc_plugin *plugins;
	struct irc_plugin_loader *plugin_loaders;
	struct irc_rule *rules;
	struct irc_hook *hooks;
} irc;

struct irc_pollable {
	void  *data;
	int  (*fd)(void *data);
	void (*want)(int *frecv, int *fsend, void *data);
	int  (*sync)(int frecv, int fsend, void *data);
	void (*finish)(void *data);
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_init "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_server_add "struct irc_server *s"
.Ft struct irc_server *
.Fn irc_bot_server_get "const char *id"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_server_remove "const char *id"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_server_clear "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_add "struct irc_plugin *p"
.Ft struct irc_plugin *
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_find "const char *, const char *"
.Ft struct irc_plugin *
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_get "const char *id"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_remove "const char *"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_clear "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_loader_add "struct irc_plugin_loader *ld"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_rule_insert "struct irc_rule *r, size_t index"
.Ft struct irc_rule *
.Fn irc_bot_rule_get "size_t index"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_rule_move "size_t from, size_t to"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_rule_remove "size_t index"
.Ft size_t
.Fn irc_bot_rule_size "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_rule_clear "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_hook_add "struct irc_hook *hook
.Ft struct irc_hook *
.Fn irc_bot_hook_get "const char *id"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_hook_remove "const char *id"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_hook_clear "void"
.Ft size_t
.Fn irc_bot_poll_size "void"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_prepare "struct pollfd *fds"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_flush "const struct pollfd *fds"
.Ft int
.Fn irc_bot_dequeue "struct irc_event *ev"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_post "void (*fn)(void *), void *data"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_pollable_add "struct irc_pollable *pb"
.Ft void
.Fn irc_bot_finish "void"
.\" DESCRIPTION
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This API provides routines to manipulate the daemon itself. Some of the
functions should be used with care.
.Pp
The global
.Vt irc
structure contains linked list of loaded elements:
.Bl -tag -width ".Va plugin_loaders"
.It Va servers
Loaded servers (see
.Xr libirccd-server 3) .
.It Va plugins
Loaded plugins (see
.Xr libirccd-plugin 3) .
.It Va plugin_loaders
Objects that search for additional plugins when required (see
.Xr libirccd-plugin 3) .
.It Va rules
Rules that filter incoming IRC events (see
.Xr libirccd-rule 3) .
.It Va hooks
Optional IRC event hooks (see
.Xr libirccd-hook 3) .
.El
.Pp
The
.Vt irc_pollable
interface is an opaque structure that can be used to insert custom descriptors
into the irccd main loop.
.Pp
All these functions takes as last argument the user data specified in the field
.Va data .
.Pp
Available fields:
.Bl -tag
.It Va data
Opaque user data, can be NULL.
.It Va fd
This function must return the user file descriptor to monitor.
.It Va want
This function must assign to the
.Fa frecv
and
.Fa fsend
arguments if the descriptor has to be selected for read or write condition
respectively. They are set to 0 prior to the invocation.
.It Va sync
This function is called after polling for the file descriptors. The arguments
.Fa frecv
and
.Fa fsend
will be set to 1 if the condition were met similarly to the
.Va want
function.
.Pp
The function must return 0 on success and any other value on error.
.It Va finish
This optional function is called when the pollable is about to be finalized,
this happens when the function
.Va sync
returned -1 or the bot is quitting.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_init
function initializes the irccd globals and some of its APIs. This function does
not need to be called from plugins.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_server_add
borrows the server
.Fa s
and adds it to the daemon. It is then connected and monitored for events.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_server_get
function searches for a server with the given
.Fa id
and returns it or NULL if it does not exists. The returned server must not be
free'd nor close, use
.Fn irc_bot_server_remove
if you want to remove a server instead.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_server_clear
function disconnects and erases all servers from the daemon.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_add
function borrows the non-NULL
.Fa p
plugin and adds it to the daemon.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_find
searches through the plugin loader a plugin
.Fa id
unless a specific
.Fa path
is non-NULL. In that case it should points to an absolute file path with a
proper file extension. It then adds it to the daemon and returns it.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_get
function searches for a plugin with the given
.Fa id
and returns it or NULL if it does not exist. The returned plugin most not be
free'd nor close, use
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_remove
if you want to remove it instead.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_clear
removes all plugins currently loaded.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_plugin_loader_add
borrows the non-NULL
.Fa ld
plugin loader and adds it to the daemon.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_rule_insert
function borrows the rule
.Fa r
and insert it at the position
.Fa index.
If the
.Fa index
argument is larger than the number of actual rules, it is inserted at the end.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_rule_move
function swaps the rules between
.Fa from
and
.Fa to
indices. The argument
.Fa to
can be larger than the number of actual rules, in that case the rule is moved at
the end. The argument
.Fa from
must be between 0 and
.Fn irc_bot_rule_size
minus one.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_rule_remove
function removes the rule at given
.Fa index
which must be valid.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_rule_size
returns the number of rules active.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_rule_clear
removes all rules.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_hook_add
borrows the
.Fa hook
and add it into the list.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_hook_get
function searched for a hook with the given
.Fa id
and returns it or NULL if it does not exist. The returned hook most not be
free'd nor close, use
.Fn irc_bot_hook_remove
if you want to remove it instead.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_hook_remove
removes the hook with the given
.Fa id .
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_hook_clear
removes all hooks.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_poll_size
function returns the number of file descriptors opened and listened to. It is
used in conjunction with
.Fn irc_bot_prepare
and
.Fn irc_bot_flush
to allocate a proper array of
.Fa struct pollfd
to create your own loop. All these functions are usually not required from
plugins.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_prepare
and
.Fn irc_bot_flush
functions first fill the array specified by
.Fa fds
and then depending on the user call of
.Fn poll ,
the
.Fn irc_bot_flush
function will dispatch incoming I/O with the result obtained in
.Fa fds .
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_dequeue
function fills the event
.Fa ev
with the first incoming IRC event and returns 1 if any. Otherwise the function
returns 0 and ev is kept untouched.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_post
append a function to be called within the irccd main thread. It is necessary
since the whole irccd API isn't thread safe. You only need to post your own
functions if you want to write threaded plugins. The non-NULL
.Fa fn
function will be called with
.Fa data
as first argument.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_pollable_add
function inserts the new
.Fa pb
to the list of custom descriptor to monitor in the irccd main's loop. Ownership
is kept to the user and the address of
.Fa pb
must remain valid until it is no longer necessary.
.Pp
The
.Fn irc_bot_finish
function cleanups any allocated resources.
.Pp
All of the following functions are usually not necessary in any plugin code:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
.Fn irc_bot_dequeue
.It
.Fn irc_bot_finish
.It
.Fn irc_bot_flush
.It
.Fn irc_bot_init
.It
.Fn irc_bot_prepare
.El
.Pp
They should be called only if your intent is to write your own bot with the
whole irccd API.
.\" AUTHORS
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm irccd
daemon was written by
.An David Demelier Aq Mt markand@malikania.fr .
