MIGRATING.md, before:

IRC Client Daemon MIGRATING
===========================

This document is a small guide to help you migrating to a next major version.

Migrating from 2.x to 3.x
=========================

Irccd
-----

- The option `reconnect-tries` has been removed from `[server]` section, use
  `auto-reconnect` boolean option instead,
- The option `reconnect-timeout` has been renamed to `auto-reconnect-delay`.
- The section `[identity]` has been removed, instead move those values inside
  each server in their `[server]` section.
- The section `[format]` and their respective plugin counterparts are renamed to
  `[templates]`.

Irccdctl
--------

- The functions `server-cnotice` and `server-cmode` have been removed, use
  `server-notice` and `server-mode` instead,
- The option `connect.host` has been renamed to `connect.hostname`,
- The option `--host` has been renamed to `--hostname`,
- The output style has been unified,
- Options `-S` and `--ssl-verify` in server-connect have been removed.

Plugins
-------

### Logger

- The keyword `source` has been removed and replaced by `channel`,
- The keyword `origin` has been added,
- Formats `cnotice`, `cmode`, `query` have been removed.

## Network API

- The requests `server-cnotice` and `server-cmode` have been removed, use
  `server-notice` and `server-mode` instead,
- The request `server-mode` command requires a new argument `channel`.
- The property `host` in request `server-connect` has been renamed to
  `hostname`,
- The request `server-info` sends `hostname` property instead of `host`,
- The event `onWhois` sends `hostname` property instead of `host`,

CMake options
-------------

- All options are now starting with `IRCCD_` for better compatibility with
  external projects,
- CMake now use GNUInstallDirs module to specify installation paths, all
  IRCCD\_WITH\_ options have been replaced by CMAKE\_INSTALL\_ equivalents.

Directories
-----------

- The default plugins path has been changed from **share/irccd/plugins** to
  **lib(arch)/irccd**.

Javascript API
--------------

### Events

- The events `onChannelMode` and `onChannelNotice` have been removed, plugins
  must use `Server.isSelf(target)` to determine a channel/private message,
- The event `onNotice` takes a new `channel` argument,
- The event `onMode` takes new `channel`, `limit`, `user`, `mask` arguments,
- The object information in `onWhois` event now has `hostname` property instead
  of `host`.

### Module Chrono

- The module `ElapsedTimer` has been renamed to `Chrono`,
- The method `Chrono.restart` has been renamed to `Chrono.resume` to reduce
  ambiguity,
- The method `Chrono.reset` has been removed, just use `Chrono.start` instead
  when you want to start accumulate time again.

### Module Directory

- The property `Directory.count` has been removed.

### Module Server

- The methods `Server.cmode` and `Server.cnotice` have been removed, use
  `Server.mode` and `Server.notice` instead,
- The method `Server.mode` requires a new argument `channel`,
- The object returned in the method `Server.info` now has a `hostname` property
  instead of `host`.
- The property `host` in constructor `Server` has been renamed to
  `hostname`,
- The property `sslVerify` in `Server` constructor has been removed.

### Module Plugin

The following properties in `Irccd.Plugin` has been renamed:

- **cachePath** renamed to **paths.cache**,
- **configPath** renamed to **paths.config**,
- **dataPath** renamed to **paths.data**.

Note: these paths are no more automatically detected and set with the new
      `[paths]` and `[paths.<name>]` sections.

### Module Server

- The property `host` in the function `Irccd.Server` has been renamed to
  `hostname`.

### Module System

- The function `Irccd.System.name` has now well defined return value.

Commit message:

irccd: remove short options, closes #1673
While here, use a brand new home made option parsing.

MIGRATING.md, after:

IRC Client Daemon MIGRATING
===========================

This document is a small guide to help you migrating to a next major version.

Migrating from 2.x to 3.x
=========================

Irccd
-----

- The option `reconnect-tries` has been removed from `[server]` section, use
  `auto-reconnect` boolean option instead,
- The option `reconnect-timeout` has been renamed to `auto-reconnect-delay`.
- The section `[identity]` has been removed, instead move those values inside
  each server in their `[server]` section.
- The section `[format]` and their respective plugin counterparts are renamed to
  `[templates]`.

Irccdctl
--------

- The functions `server-cnotice` and `server-cmode` have been removed, use
  `server-notice` and `server-mode` instead,
- The option `connect.host` has been renamed to `connect.hostname`,
- The option `--host` has been renamed to `--hostname`,
- The output style has been unified,
- Options `-S` and `--ssl-verify` in server-connect have been removed.
- Connection options are now order dependant and must be set before the command
  name.

Plugins
-------

### Logger

- The keyword `source` has been removed and replaced by `channel`,
- The keyword `origin` has been added,
- Formats `cnotice`, `cmode`, `query` have been removed.

## Network API

- The requests `server-cnotice` and `server-cmode` have been removed, use
  `server-notice` and `server-mode` instead,
- The request `server-mode` command requires a new argument `channel`.
- The property `host` in request `server-connect` has been renamed to
  `hostname`,
- The request `server-info` sends `hostname` property instead of `host`,
- The event `onWhois` sends `hostname` property instead of `host`,

CMake options
-------------

- All options are now starting with `IRCCD_` for better compatibility with
  external projects,
- CMake now use GNUInstallDirs module to specify installation paths, all
  IRCCD\_WITH\_ options have been replaced by CMAKE\_INSTALL\_ equivalents.

Directories
-----------

- The default plugins path has been changed from **share/irccd/plugins** to
  **lib(arch)/irccd**.

Javascript API
--------------

### Events

- The events `onChannelMode` and `onChannelNotice` have been removed, plugins
  must use `Server.isSelf(target)` to determine a channel/private message,
- The event `onNotice` takes a new `channel` argument,
- The event `onMode` takes new `channel`, `limit`, `user`, `mask` arguments,
- The object information in `onWhois` event now has `hostname` property instead
  of `host`.

### Module Chrono

- The module `ElapsedTimer` has been renamed to `Chrono`,
- The method `Chrono.restart` has been renamed to `Chrono.resume` to reduce
  ambiguity,
- The method `Chrono.reset` has been removed, just use `Chrono.start` instead
  when you want to start accumulate time again.

### Module Directory

- The property `Directory.count` has been removed.

### Module Server

- The methods `Server.cmode` and `Server.cnotice` have been removed, use
  `Server.mode` and `Server.notice` instead,
- The method `Server.mode` requires a new argument `channel`,
- The object returned in the method `Server.info` now has a `hostname` property
  instead of `host`.
- The property `host` in constructor `Server` has been renamed to
  `hostname`,
- The property `sslVerify` in `Server` constructor has been removed.

### Module Plugin

The following properties in `Irccd.Plugin` has been renamed:

- **cachePath** renamed to **paths.cache**,
- **configPath** renamed to **paths.config**,
- **dataPath** renamed to **paths.data**.

Note: these paths are no more automatically detected and set with the new
      `[paths]` and `[paths.<name>]` sections.

### Module Server

- The property `host` in the function `Irccd.Server` has been renamed to
  `hostname`.

### Module System

- The function `Irccd.System.name` has now well defined return value.
